Supabase Migration Guide for CampusDeal Backend

Goal
Replace the suspended Render Postgres database with Supabase, keep the Django backend working, and let the mobile app continue consuming the API normally.

Important principle
The mobile app should not connect to Supabase directly. The mobile app should keep calling the backend API. Only the backend database changes.

What is already ready in this repo
- The backend already reads DATABASE_URL in campusdeal/settings.py.
- The project already uses dj-database-url and psycopg2-binary.
- The deployment config already expects a database connection string.
- This means the migration is mostly a database move plus an environment variable update.

Step 1: Create the Supabase project
1. Sign in to Supabase.
2. Create a new project.
3. Choose a strong database password and store it safely.
4. Pick a region close to your backend deployment and users.

Step 2: Get the database connection string
1. Open the Supabase project dashboard.
2. Go to the database connection details.
3. Copy the PostgreSQL connection string exactly as Supabase provides it.
4. Prefer the direct connection string for a long-lived Django backend.
5. If direct connection does not work from your host, use the Supabase pooler connection string.
6. Make sure SSL is enabled if required by the provided string.

Step 3: Export the old Render database
If the old Render database can still be accessed, export it immediately before anything else.

Example dump:
pg_dump "$OLD_DATABASE_URL" --no-owner --no-privileges --format=custom --file=campusdeal.dump

If you only have SQL:
psql "$OLD_DATABASE_URL" -f backup.sql

Step 4: Import into Supabase
For a custom dump:
pg_restore --clean --if-exists --no-owner --no-privileges --dbname="$SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL" campusdeal.dump

For a plain SQL backup:
psql "$SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL" -f backup.sql

Step 5: Point Django to Supabase
1. Update the backend environment variable DATABASE_URL to the Supabase connection string.
2. Keep the database secret only on the server side.
3. Do not put the database URL in the mobile app or frontend app.

Where this repo reads the database URL
- campusdeal/settings.py uses DATABASE_URL if it exists.
- If DATABASE_URL is missing, the project falls back to SQLite for local development.

Step 6: Deploy and migrate
After updating DATABASE_URL:
1. Redeploy the backend.
2. Run Django migrations on the new database.
3. Run a health check.
4. Smoke test the main flows.

Suggested commands:
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py check

Step 7: Verify the critical flows
Test these before telling the mobile developer to proceed:
- Login and registration
- Password reset
- Marketplace listing creation and browsing
- Order checkout
- Wallet top-up
- Withdrawal flow
- Refund flow
- Chat endpoints
- Health endpoint

Step 8: Update deployment environment
If you are still using Render for the backend:
1. Set the backend service DATABASE_URL to the Supabase connection string.
2. Keep DEBUG disabled in production.
3. Keep ALLOWED_HOSTS and CORS settings aligned with your live frontend domains.

Supabase connection notes
- Direct connection is usually best for a backend server.
- Pooler connection is a fallback if network restrictions or IPv4 issues appear.
- Use the exact connection string Supabase provides instead of constructing one manually unless you know the required parameters.

Rollback plan
If something fails:
1. Switch DATABASE_URL back to the previous working database if it still exists.
2. Redeploy.
3. Investigate the import or migration issue before retrying.

Practical recommendation
1. Create Supabase.
2. Export the Render database as soon as possible.
3. Import into Supabase.
4. Update DATABASE_URL.
5. Deploy backend.
6. Verify with real API calls.
7. Then hand the mobile developer the API base URL and docs.

Result
Once the backend is talking to Supabase and the API smoke tests pass, the mobile app can safely consume the API as normal.
